= WLAPI

* {RubyGems}[http://rubygems.org/gems/wlapi]
* Developers {Homepage}[http://bu.chsta.be/]
* {WLAPI Project Page}[http://bu.chsta.be/projects/wlapi/]
* {Source Code}[https://github.com/arbox/wlapi]
* {Bug Tracker}[https://github.com/arbox/wlapi/issues]
* {Mailing List}[http://groups.google.com/group/wlapi]

== DESCRIPTION
WLAPI is a programmatic API for web services provided by the project
{Wortschatz}[http://wortschatz.uni-leipzig.de/],
University of Leipzig. These services are a great source of linguistic knowledge
for morphological, syntactic and semantic analysis of German both for traditional
and Computational Linguistics (CL).

Use this API to gain data on word frequencies, left and right neighbours,
collocations and semantic similarity. Check it out if you are interested
in Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Human Language Technology (HLT).
=== Implemented Features
You can use the following search methods:
* baseform;
* cooccurrences;
* cooccurrences_all;
* crossword;
* domain;
* experimental_synonyms;
* frequencies;
* left_collocation_finder;
* left_neighbours;
* right_collocation_finder;
* right_neighbours;
* sentences;
* similarity;
* synonyms;
* thesaurus;
* wordforms.

The services <tt>NGrams</tt> and <tt>NGramReferences</tt> are under
development and will be available soon.

There are two additional services by Wortschatz Leipzig: MARS and
Kookurrenzschnitt. They will not be implemented due to internal restrictions
of the service provider.

== INSTALLATION
WLAPI is provided as a .gem package. Simply install it via
{RubyGems}[http://rubygems.org/gems/wlapi].
To install WLAPI ussue the following command:
  $ gem install wlapi

You might want to install versions prior to +0.8.0+, if you are bound on
the old implementations of {savon}[http://savonrb.com/]:
  $ gem install wlapi -v 0.7.4

If you want to do a system wide installation, do this as root
(possibly using +sudo+).

Alternatively use your Gemfile for dependency management.


== SYNOPSIS

Basic usage is very simple:
  $ require 'wlapi'
  $ api = WLAPI::API.new
  $ api.synonyms('Haus', 15) # returns an array with string values (UTF8 encoded)
  $ api.domain('Auto') # => Array

If you are going to send mass requests, please contact the support team
of the project {Wortschatz}[http://wortschatz.uni-leipzig.de/], get your private
credentials and instantiate an authenticated client:
  $ require 'wlapi'
  $ api = WLAPI::API.new(username, password)

See documentation in the WLAPI::API class for details
on particular search methods.

== EXCEPTION HIERARCHY
While using WLAPI you can face following errors:
* <tt>WLAPI::UserError</tt>;
* <tt>WLAPI::ExternalError</tt>.

The errors here are presented in the order they may occur
during WLAPI's work.

First WLAPI checks the user input and throws a <tt>WLAPI::UserError</tt>
if the arguments are not appropriate.

Then it fetches a response from a remote server, it can result
in a <tt>WLAPI::ExternalError</tt>. In most cases it will be a simple wrapper
around other errors, e.g. <tt>Savon::SOAP::Fault</tt>.

All of them are subcalsses of <tt>WLAPI::Error</tt> which is in turn a subclass
of the standard +RuntimeError+.

If you want to intercept any and every exception thrown by WLAPI simply rescue
<tt>WLAPI::Error</tt>.


== SUPPORT
If you have question, bug reports or any suggestions, please drop me an email :) 
Any help is deeply appreciated!

== CHANGELOG
For details on future plan and working progress see CHANGELOG.

== CAUTION
This library is <b>work in process</b>! Though the interface is mostly complete,
you might face some not implemented features.

Please contact me with your suggestions, bug reports and feature requests.
== LICENSE

WLAPI is a copyrighted software by Andrei Beliankou, 2010, 2011

You may use, redistribute and change it under the terms
provided in the LICENSE file.
